<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX: M. le Chef de la Sûreté</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p epub:type="title"><abbr>M.</abbr> le Chef de la Sûreté</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>At 9:00 <abbr>a.m.</abbr> next morning the Continental express moved slowly out of Charing Cross station, bearing in the corner of a first-class smoking compartment, Inspector Burnley. The glorious weather of the past few days had not held, and the sky was clouded over, giving a promise of rain. The river showed dark and gloomy as they drew over it, and the houses on the south side had resumed their normal dull and grimy appearance. A gentle breeze blew from the southwest, and Burnley, who was a bad sailor, hoped it would not be very much worse at Dover. He lit one of his strong-smelling cigars and puffed at it thoughtfully as the train ran with ever-increasing speed through the extraordinary tangle of lines south of London Bridge.</p>
			<p>He was glad to be taking this journey. He liked Paris and he had not been there for four years, not indeed since the great Marcelle murder case, which attracted so much attention in both countries. <abbr>M.</abbr> Lefarge, the genial French detective with whom he had then collaborated, had become a real friend and he hoped to run across him again.</p>
			<p>They had reached the outer suburbs and occasional fields began to replace the lines of little villas which lie closer to the city. He watched the flying objects idly for a few minutes, and then with a little sigh turned his attention to his case, as a barrister makes up his brief before going into court.</p>
			<p>He considered first his object in making the journey. He had to find out who the murdered woman was, if she was murdered, though there appeared little doubt about that. He had to discover and get convicting evidence against the murderer, and lastly, he had to learn the explanation of the extraordinary business of the cask.</p>
			<p>He then reviewed the data he already had, turning first to the medical report which up till then he had not had an opportunity of reading. There was first a note about Felix. That unhappy man was entirely prostrated from the shock and his life was in serious danger.</p>
			<p>The Inspector had already known this, for he had gone to the ward before seven that morning in the hope of getting a statement from the sick man, only to find him semiconscious and delirious. The identity of the dead woman could not, therefore, be ascertained from him. He, Burnley, must rely on his own efforts.</p>
			<p>The report then dealt with the woman. She was aged about five-and-twenty, five feet seven in height and apparently gracefully built, and weighing a little over eight stone. She had dark hair of great length and luxuriance, and eyes with long lashes and delicately pencilled brows. Her mouth was small and regular, her nose slightly retroussé and her face a true oval. She had a broad, low forehead, and her complexion appeared to have been very clear, though dark. There was no distinguishing mark on the body.</p>
			<p>“Surely,” thought Burnley, “with such a description it should be easy to identify her.”</p>
			<p>The report continued:⁠—</p>
			<blockquote>
				<p>“There are ten marks about her neck, apparently finger marks. Of these eight are together at the back of the neck and not strongly marked. The remaining two are situated in front of the throat, close together and one on each side of the windpipe. The skin at these points is much bruised and blackened, and the pressure must therefore have been very great.</p>
				<p>“It seemed clear the marks were caused by some individual standing in front of her and squeezing her throat with both hands, the thumbs on the windpipe and the fingers round the neck. From the strength necessary to produce such bruises, it looks as if this individual were a man.</p>
				<p>“An autopsy revealed the fact that all the organs were sound, and there was no trace of poison or other cause of death. The conclusion is therefore unavoidable that the woman was murdered by strangulation. She appears to have been dead about a week or slightly longer.”</p>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“That’s definite, anyway,” mused Burnley. “Let’s see what else we have.”</p>
			<p>There was the woman’s rank in life. She was clearly well off if not rich, and probably well born. Her fingers suggested culture; they were those of the artist or musician. The wedding ring on her right hand showed that she was married and living in France. “Surely,” thought the Inspector again, “the Chief is right. It would be impossible for a woman of this kind to disappear without the knowledge of the French police. My job will be done when I have seen them.”</p>
			<p>But supposing they did not know. What then?</p>
			<p>There was first of all the letter to Felix. The signatory, <abbr>M.</abbr> Le Gautier, assuming such a man existed, should be able to give a clue. The waiters in the Toisson d’Or Café might know something. The typewriter with the defective letters was surely traceable.</p>
			<p>The clothes in which the corpse was dressed suggested another line of attack. Inquiry at the leading Paris shops could hardly fail to produce information. And if not there were the rings and the diamond comb. These would surely lead to something.</p>
			<p>Then there was the cask. It was a specially made one, and must surely have been used for a very special purpose. Inquiry from the firm whose label it had borne could hardly be fruitless.</p>
			<p>And lastly, if all these failed, there was left advertisement. A judiciously worded notice with a reward for information of identity would almost certainly draw. Burnley felt he was well supplied with clues. Many and many a thorny problem he had solved with far less to go on.</p>
			<p>He continued turning the matter over in his mind in his slow, painstaking way until a sudden plunge into a tunnel and a grinding of brakes warned him they were coming into Dover.</p>
			<p>The crossing was calm and uneventful. Before they passed between the twin piers at Calais the sun had burst out, the clouds were thinning, and blue sky showing in the distance.</p>
			<p>They made a good run to Paris, stopping only at Amiens, and at 5:45 precisely drew slowly into the vast, echoing vault of the Gare du Nord. Calling a taxi, the Inspector drove to a small private hotel he usually patronised in the rue Castiglione. Having secured his room, he re-entered the taxi and went to the Sûreté, the Scotland Yard of Paris.</p>
			<p>He inquired for <abbr>M.</abbr> Chauvet, sending in his letter of introduction. The Chief was in and disengaged, and after a few minutes’ delay Inspector Burnley was ushered into his presence.</p>
			<p><abbr>M.</abbr> Chauvet, Chef de la Sûreté, was a small, elderly man with a dark, pointed beard, gold-rimmed glasses, and an exceedingly polite manner.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnley,” he said in excellent English, as they shook hands. “I think we have had the pleasure of cooperating with you before?”</p>
			<p>Burnley reminded him of the Marcelle murder case.</p>
			<p>“Ah, of course, I remember. And now you are bringing us another of the same kind. Is it not so?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir, and a rather puzzling one also. But I am in hopes we have enough information to clear it up quickly.”</p>
			<p>“Good, I hope you have. Please let me have, in a word or two, the briefest outline, then I shall ask you to go over it again in detail.”</p>
			<p>Burnley complied, explaining in half a dozen sentences the gist of the case.</p>
			<p>“The circumstances are certainly singular,” said the Chief. “Let me think whom I shall put in charge of it with you. Dupont is perhaps the best man, but he is engaged on that burglary at Chartres.” He looked up a card index. “Of those disengaged, the best perhaps are Cambon, Lefarge, and Bontemps. All good men.”</p>
			<p>He stretched out his hand to the desk telephone.</p>
			<p>“Pardon me, sir,” said Burnley. “I don’t want to make suggestions or interfere in what is not my business, but I had the pleasure of cooperating with <abbr>M.</abbr> Lefarge in the Marcelle case, and if it was quite the same I should very much like to work with him again.”</p>
			<p>“But excellent, monsieur. I hear you say that with much pleasure.”</p>
			<p>He lifted his desk telephone, pressing one of the many buttons on its stand.</p>
			<p>“Ask <abbr>M.</abbr> Lefarge to come here at once.”</p>
			<p>In a few seconds a tall, clean-shaven, rather English looking man entered.</p>
			<p>“Ah, Lefarge,” said the Chief. “Here is a friend of yours.”</p>
			<p>The two detectives shook hands warmly.</p>
			<p>“He has brought us another murder mystery and very interesting it sounds. Now, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnley, perhaps you would let us hear your story in detail.”</p>
			<p>The Inspector nodded, and beginning at the sending of the clerk Tom Broughton to check the consignment of wine at the Rouen steamer, he related all the strange events that had taken place, the discovery of the cask, and the suspicions aroused, the forged note, the removal of the cask, the getting rid of Harkness, the tracing and second disappearance of the cask, its ultimate recovery, its sinister contents, and finally, a list of the points which might yield clues if followed up. The two men listened intently, but without interrupting. After he had finished they sat silently in thought.</p>
			<p>“In one point I do not quite follow you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnley,” said the Chief at last. “You appear to assume that this murdered woman was a Parisienne. But what are your reasons for that?”</p>
			<p>“The cask came from Paris. That is certain, as you will see from the steamship’s documents. Then the letter to Felix purports to be from a Parisian, a <abbr>M.</abbr> Le Gautier, and both it and the note pinned to the body were typed on French paper. Further, the label on the cask bore the name of a Paris firm.”</p>
			<p>“It does not seem to me very conclusive. The cask admittedly came from Paris, but might not Paris have been only the last stage of a longer journey? How, for example, do we know that it was not from London, or Brussels, or Berlin, in the first instance, and rebooked at Paris with the object of laying a false scent? With regard to the letter, I understand you did not see the envelope. Therefore it does not seem to be evidence. As for the French paper, Felix had been frequently in France, and he might be responsible for that. The label, again, was a re-addressed old one. Might it not therefore have been taken off some quite different package and put on the cask?”</p>
			<p>“I admit the evidence is far from conclusive, though it might be said in answer to your first point about the re-addressing of the cask in Paris, that such would involve a confederate here. In any case it seemed to both our Chief and myself that Paris should be our first point of inquiry.”</p>
			<p>“But yes, monsieur, in that I entirely agree. I only wished to make the point that you have no real evidence that the solution of the problem lies here.”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid we have not.”</p>
			<p>“Well, to proceed. As you have suggested, the first point is to ascertain if anyone resembling the dead woman has disappeared recently. Your doctor says that she has been dead for a week or longer, but I do not think that we can confine our inquiries to that period only. She might have been kidnapped and held a prisoner for a considerable time previous to her death. I should say that it is not likely, but it may have happened.”</p>
			<p>He lifted his telephone, pressing another button.</p>
			<p>“Bring me the list of disappearances of persons in the Paris area during the last four weeks, or rather”⁠—he stopped and looked at the others⁠—“the disappearances in all France for the same period.”</p>
			<p>In a few seconds a clerk entered with some papers.</p>
			<p>“Here are all the disappearances reported during March, monsieur,” he said, “and here those for April up to the present date. I haven’t a return for the last four weeks only, but can get one out at once if you wish.”</p>
			<p>“No. These are all right.”</p>
			<p>The Chief examined the documents.</p>
			<p>“Last month,” he said, “seven persons disappeared of whom six were women, four being in the Paris area. This month two people have disappeared, both women and both in the Paris area. That is six women in Paris in the last five weeks. Let’s see, now,” he ran his fingers down the column, “Suzanne Lemaître, aged seventeen, last seen⁠—well, it could not be she. Lucille Marquet, aged twenty⁠—no good either. All these are girls under twenty-one, except one. Here, what is this? Marie Lachaise, aged thirty-four, height 172 centimetres⁠—that is about five feet eight in English measure⁠—dark hair and eyes and clear complexion, wife of <abbr>M.</abbr> Henri Lachaise, the <i xml:lang="fr">avocat</i>, of 41 rue Tinques, Boulevarde Arago. Left home on the twenty-ninth ultimo, that is about ten days ago, at three o’clock, ostensibly for shopping. Has not been heard of since. Better take a note of that.”</p>
			<p><abbr>M.</abbr> Lefarge did so, and spoke for the first time.</p>
			<p>“We shall try it, of course, monsieur, but I don’t expect much result. If that woman went out to shop she would hardly be wearing evening dress, as was the corpse.”</p>
			<p>“Also,” said Burnley, “I think we may take it the dead woman’s name was Annette B.”</p>
			<p>“Probably you are both right. Still, you had better make sure.”</p>
			<p>The Chief tossed away the papers and looked at Burnley.</p>
			<p>“No other disappearances have been reported, nor have we any further information here that would seem to help. I am afraid we must fall back on our other clues. Let us consider, therefore, where we should start.”</p>
			<p>He paused for a few moments and then resumed.</p>
			<p>“We may begin, I think, by checking the part of Felix’s statement which you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnley, have not yet been able to inquire into, and to do so we must interview <abbr>M.</abbr> Le Gautier and try to ascertain if he wrote the letter. If he admits it we will be a step farther on, if not, we must find out how far the story of the lottery and the bet is true, and whether the conversation described by Felix actually took place. In this case we must ascertain precisely who were present and overheard that conversation, and would therefore have the knowledge necessary to write that letter. If this does not give us what we want, it may be necessary to follow up each of these persons and try for our man by elimination. A part of that inquiry would be a search for the typewriter used, which, as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnley points out, is identifiable. Simultaneously, I think we should endeavour to trace the wearing apparel and the cask. What do you think of that, gentlemen, for a rough programme?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think we could do better, sir,” returned Burnley as the Chief looked at him, while Lefarge nodded his approval.</p>
			<p>“Very well, I would suggest that you and Lefarge go into the matter of the letter tomorrow. Arrange your programme as you think best for yourselves and keep me advised of how you get on. And now as to the clothes. Let me see exactly what you have.”</p>
			<p>Burnley spread out the dead woman’s clothes and jewellery on a table. The Chief examined them for some minutes in silence.</p>
			<p>“Better separate them into three lots,” he said at length, “the dress, the underclothes, and the trinkets. It will take three to work it properly.” He consulted his card index and picked up the telephone.</p>
			<p>“Send <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mme.</abbr> Furnier and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mlles.</abbr> Lecoq and Blaise here.”</p>
			<p>In a few seconds three stylishly dressed women entered. The Chief introduced Burnley and briefly explained the case.</p>
			<p>“I want you three ladies,” he said, “to take one each of these three lots of clothes and trinkets, and find the purchaser. Their quality will give you an idea of the shops to try. Get at it first thing tomorrow, and keep yourselves in constant touch with headquarters.”</p>
			<p>When the women had withdrawn with the articles he turned to Burnley⁠—</p>
			<p>“In an inquiry of this sort I like a report in the evenings of progress during the day. Perhaps you and Lefarge wouldn’t mind calling about nine tomorrow evening, when we shall have a further discussion. And now it is nearly eight o’clock, so you cannot do anything tonight. You, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Burnley, are doubtless tired from your journey and will be glad to get to your hotel. So good night, gentlemen.”</p>
			<p>The detectives bowed themselves out. After an exchange of further greetings and compliments, Lefarge said:⁠—</p>
			<p>“Are you really very tired? Are you game for a short inquiry tonight?”</p>
			<p>“Why, certainly. What do you propose?”</p>
			<p>“This. Let us cross and get some dinner at Jules’ in the Boule Miche. It’s on the way to that address the Chief gave us. Then we could go on and see whether the body you found in the cask can be identified as that of Madame Marie Lachaise.”</p>
			<p>They strolled leisurely over the Pont <abbr>St.</abbr> Michel and crossed the Quai into the Boulevard. When Burnley was in London he swore there was no place like that city, but in Paris he never felt so sure. Jove! he was glad to be back. And what luck to have met this good fellow Lefarge again! He felt that in the intervals of business he was going to enjoy himself.</p>
			<p>They dined inexpensively but well, sitting over their cigars and liqueur coffee until the clocks struck nine. Then Lefarge made a move.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like to go to this place too late,” he said. “Do you mind coming now?”</p>
			<p>They took a taxi and, leaving the Luxembourg behind on the left, quickly ran the mile or so to the Boulevard Arago. <abbr>M.</abbr> Lachaise received them at once and they stated their melancholy business, showing the photograph of the body. The <i xml:lang="fr">avocat</i> took it to the light and examined it earnestly. Then he returned it with a gesture of relief.</p>
			<p>“Thank God,” he said at length, “it’s not she.”</p>
			<p>“The body was clothed in a light pink evening dress, with several diamond rings on the fingers and a diamond comb in the hair.”</p>
			<p>“It is not she at all. My wife had no pink dress, nor did she wear a diamond comb. Besides, she left here in an out-of-door walking dress and all her evening things were in her wardrobe.”</p>
			<p>“It is conclusive,” said <abbr>M.</abbr> Lefarge, and with thanks and compliments they took their leave.</p>
			<p>“I thought that would be no good,” said Lefarge, “but we must do what the Chief says.”</p>
			<p>“Of course. Besides, you never know. Look here, old man,” he added, “I am tired after all. I think, if you don’t mind, I’ll get away to the hotel.”</p>
			<p>“But, of course. Whatever you feel like. Let’s stroll to the end of the Boulevard. We can get the Metro across the street at the Avenue d’Orléans.”</p>
			<p>They changed at Châtelet and, having arranged to meet next morning, the Inspector took the Maillot train for Concorde, while Lefarge went in the opposite direction to his home near the Place de la Bastille.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
