<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>I: A Strange Consignment</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">A Strange Consignment</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery, managing director of the Insular and Continental Steam Navigation Company, had just arrived at his office. He glanced at his inward letters, ran his eye over his list of engagements for the day, and inspected the return of the movements of his Company’s steamers. Then, after spending a few moments in thought, he called his chief clerk, Wilcox.</p>
			<p>“I see the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i> is in this morning from Rouen,” he said. “I take it she’ll have that consignment of wines for Norton and Banks?”</p>
			<p>“She has,” replied the chief clerk, “I’ve just rung up the dock office to inquire.”</p>
			<p>“I think we ought to have it specially checked from here. You remember all the trouble they gave us about the last lot. Will you send some reliable man down? Whom can you spare?”</p>
			<p>“Broughton could go. He has done it before.”</p>
			<p>“Well, see to it, will you, and then send in Miss Johnson, and I shall go through the mail.”</p>
			<p>The office was the headquarters of the Insular and Continental Steam Navigation Company, colloquially known as the <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">I.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr>, and occupied the second floor of a large block of buildings at the western end of Fenchurch Street. The Company was an important concern, and owned a fleet of some thirty steamers ranging from 300 to 1,000 tons burden, which traded between London and the smaller Continental ports. Low freights was their specialty, but they did not drive their boats, and no attempt was made to compete with the more expensive routes in the matter of speed. Under these circumstances they did a large trade in all kinds of goods other than perishables.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Wilcox picked up some papers and stepped over to the desk at which Tom Broughton was working.</p>
			<p>“Broughton,” he said, “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery wants you to go down at once to the docks and check a consignment of wines for Norton and Banks. It came in last night from Rouen in the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i>. These people gave us a lot of trouble about their last lot, disputing our figures, so you will have to be very careful. Here are the invoices, and don’t take the men’s figures but see each cask yourself.”</p>
			<p>“Right, sir,” replied Broughton, a young fellow of three-and-twenty, with a frank, boyish face and an alert manner. Nothing loath to exchange the monotony of the office for the life and bustle of the quays, he put away his books, stowed the invoices carefully in his pocket, took his hat and went quickly down the stairs and out into Fenchurch Street.</p>
			<p>It was a brilliant morning in early April. After a spell of cold, showery weather, there was at last a foretaste of summer in the air, and the contrast made it seem good to be alive. The sun shone with that clear freshness seen only after rain. Broughton’s spirits rose as he hurried through the busy streets, and watched the ceaseless flow of traffic pouring along the arteries leading to the shipping.</p>
			<p>His goal was <abbr>St.</abbr> Katherine’s Docks, where the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i> was berthed, and, passing across Tower Hill and round two sides of the grim old fortress, he pushed on till he reached the basin in which the steamer was lying. She was a long and rather low vessel of some 800 tons burden, with engines amidships, and a single black funnel ornamented with the two green bands that marked the Company’s boats. Recently out from her annual overhaul, she looked trim and clean in her new coat of black paint. Unloading was in progress, and Broughton hurried on board, anxious to be present before any of the consignment of wine was set ashore.</p>
			<p>He was just in time, for the hatches of the lower forehold, in which the casks were stowed, had been cleared and were being lifted off as he arrived. As he stood on the bridge deck waiting for the work to be completed he looked around.</p>
			<p>Several steamers were lying in the basin. Immediately behind, with her high bluff bows showing over the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i>’s counter, was the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Thrush</i>, his Company’s largest vessel, due to sail that afternoon for Corunna and Vigo. In the berth in front lay a Clyde Shipping Company’s boat bound for Belfast and Glasgow and also due out that afternoon, the smoke from her black funnel circling lazily up into the clear sky. Opposite was the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Arcturus</i>, belonging to the <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">I.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr>’s rivals, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Babcock and Millman, and commanded by “Black Mac,” so called to distinguish him from the Captain M’Tavish of differently coloured hair, “Red Mac,” who was master of the same Company’s <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Sirius</i>. To Broughton these boats represented links with the mysterious, far-off world of romance, and he never saw one put to sea without longing to go with her to Copenhagen, Bordeaux, Lisbon, Spezia, or to whatever other delightful-sounding place she was bound.</p>
			<p>The fore-hatch being open, Broughton climbed down into the hold armed with his notebook, and the unloading of the casks began. They were swung out in lots of four fastened together by rope slings. As each lot was dealt with, the clerk noted the contents in his book, from which he would afterwards check the invoices.</p>
			<p>The work progressed rapidly, the men straining and pushing to get the heavy barrels in place for the slings. Gradually the space under and around the hatch was cleared, the casks then having to be rolled forward from the farther parts of the hold.</p>
			<p>A quartet of casks had just been hoisted and Broughton was turning to examine the next lot when he heard a sudden shout of “Look out, there! Look out!” and felt himself seized roughly and pulled backwards. He swung round and was in time to see the four casks turning over out of the sling and falling heavily to the floor of the hold. Fortunately they had only been lifted some four or five feet, but they were heavy things and came down solidly. The two under were damaged slightly and the wine began to ooze out between the staves. The others had had their fall broken and neither seemed the worse. The men had all jumped clear and no one was hurt.</p>
			<p>“Upend those casks, boys,” called the foreman, when the damage had been briefly examined, “and let’s save the wine.”</p>
			<p>The leaking casks were turned damaged end up and lifted aside for temporary repairs. The third barrel was found to be uninjured, but when they came to the fourth it was seen that it had not entirely escaped.</p>
			<p>This fourth cask was different in appearance from the rest, and Broughton had noted it as not belonging to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Norton and Banks’ consignment. It was more strongly made and better finished, and was stained a light oak colour and varnished. Evidently, also, it did not contain wine, for what had called their attention to its injury was a little heap of sawdust which had escaped from a crack at the end of one of the staves.</p>
			<p>“Strange looking cask this. Did you ever see one like it before?” said Broughton to the <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">I.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr> foreman who had pulled him back, a man named Harkness. He was a tall, strongly built man with prominent cheekbones, a square chin and a sandy moustache. Broughton had known him for some time and had a high opinion of his intelligence and ability.</p>
			<p>“Never saw nothin’ like it,” returned Harkness. “I tell you, sir, that there cask ’as been made to stand some knocking about.”</p>
			<p>“Looks like it. Let’s get it rolled back out of the way and turned up, so as to see the damage.”</p>
			<p>Harkness seized the cask and with some difficulty rolled it close to the ship’s side out of the way of the unloading, but when he tried to upend it he found it too heavy to lift.</p>
			<p>“There’s something more than sawdust in there,” he said. “It’s the ’eaviest cask ever I struck. I guess it was its weight shifted the other casks in the sling and spilled the lot.”</p>
			<p>He called over another man and they turned the cask damaged end up. Broughton stepped over to the charge hand and asked him to check the tally for a few seconds while he examined the injury.</p>
			<p>As he was returning across the half-dozen yards to join the foreman, his eye fell on the little heap of sawdust that had fallen out of the crack, and the glitter of some bright object showing through it caught his attention. He stooped and picked it up. His amazement as he looked at it may be imagined, for it was a sovereign!</p>
			<p>He glanced quickly round. Only Harkness of all the men present had seen it.</p>
			<p>“Turn the ’eap over, sir,” said the foreman, evidently as surprised as the younger man, “see if there are any more.”</p>
			<p>Broughton sifted the sawdust through his fingers, and his astonishment was not lessened when he discovered two others hidden in the little pile.</p>
			<p>He gazed at the three gold coins lying in his palm. As he did so Harkness gave a smothered exclamation and, stooping rapidly, picked something out from between two of the boards of the hold’s bottom.</p>
			<p>“Another, by gum!” cried the foreman in low tones, “and another!” He bent down again and lifted a second object from behind where the cask was standing. “Blest if it ain’t a blooming gold mine we’ve struck.”</p>
			<p>Broughton put the five sovereigns in his pocket, as he and Harkness unostentatiously scrutinised the deck. They searched carefully, but found no other coins.</p>
			<p>“Did you drop them when I dragged you back?” asked Harkness.</p>
			<p>“I? No, I wish I had, but I had no gold about me.”</p>
			<p>“Some of the other chaps must ’ave then. Maybe Peters or Wilson. Both jumped just at this place.”</p>
			<p>“Well, don’t say anything for a moment. I believe they came out of the cask.”</p>
			<p>“Out o’ the cask? Why, sir, ’oo would send sovereigns in a cask?”</p>
			<p>“No one, I should have said; but how would they get among the sawdust if they didn’t come out through the crack with it?”</p>
			<p>“That’s so,” said Harkness thoughtfully, continuing, “I tell you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broughton, you say the word and I’ll open that crack a bit more and we’ll ’ave a look into the cask.”</p>
			<p>The clerk recognised that this would be irregular, but his curiosity was keenly aroused and he hesitated.</p>
			<p>“I’ll do it without leaving any mark that won’t be put down to the fall,” continued the tempter, and Broughton fell.</p>
			<p>“I think we should know,” he replied. “This gold may have been stolen and inquiries should be made.”</p>
			<p>The foreman smiled and disappeared, returning with a hammer and cold chisel. The broken piece at the end of the stave was entirely separated from the remainder by the crack, but was held in position by one of the iron rings. This piece Harkness with some difficulty drove upwards, thus widening the crack. As he did so, a little shower of sawdust fell out and the astonishment of the two men was not lessened when with it came a number of sovereigns, which went rolling here and there over the planks.</p>
			<p>It happened that at the same moment the attention of the other men was concentrated on a quartet of casks which was being slung up through the hatches, the nervousness caused by the slip not having yet subsided. None of them therefore saw what had taken place, and Broughton and Harkness had picked up the coins before any of them turned round. Six sovereigns had come out, and the clerk added them to the five he already had, while he and his companion unostentatiously searched for others. Not finding any, they turned back to the cask deeply mystified.</p>
			<p>“Open that crack a bit more,” said Broughton. “What do you think about it?”</p>
			<p>“Blest if I know what to think,” replied the foreman. “We’re on to something mighty queer anyway. ’Old my cap under the crack till I prize out that there bit of wood altogether.”</p>
			<p>With some difficulty the loose piece of the stave was hammered up, leaving a hole in the side of the barrel some six inches deep by nearly four wide. Half a capful of sawdust fell out, and the clerk added to it by clearing the broken edge of the wood. Then he placed the cap on the top of the cask and they eagerly felt through the sawdust.</p>
			<p>“By Jehoshaphat!” whispered Harkness excitedly, “it’s just full of gold!”</p>
			<p>It seemed to be so, indeed, for in it were no fewer than seven sovereigns.</p>
			<p>“That’s eighteen in all,” said Broughton, in an awed tone, as he slipped them into his pocket. “If the whole cask’s full of them it must be worth thousands and thousands of pounds.”</p>
			<p>They stood gazing at the prosaic looking barrel, outwardly remarkable only in its strong design and good finish, marvelling if beneath that commonplace exterior there was indeed hidden what to them seemed a fortune. Then Harkness crouched down and looked into the cask through the hole he had made. Hardly had he done so when he sprang back with a sudden oath.</p>
			<p>“Look in there, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broughton!” he cried in a suppressed tone. “Look in there!”</p>
			<p>Broughton stooped in turn and peered in. Then he also recoiled, for there, sticking up out of the sawdust, were the fingers of a hand.</p>
			<p>“This is terrible,” he whispered, convinced at last they were in the presence of tragedy, and then he could have kicked himself for being such a fool.</p>
			<p>“Why, it’s only a statue,” he cried.</p>
			<p>“Statue?” replied Harkness sharply. “Statue? That ain’t no statue. That’s part of a dead body, that is. And don’t you make no mistake.”</p>
			<p>“It’s too dark to see properly. Get a light, will you, till we make sure.”</p>
			<p>When the foreman had procured a hand-lamp Broughton looked in again and speedily saw that his first impression was correct. The fingers were undoubtedly those of a woman’s hand, small, pointed, delicate, and bearing rings which glinted in the light.</p>
			<p>“Clear away some more of the sawdust, Harkness,” said the young man as he stood up again. “We must find out all we can now.”</p>
			<p>He held the cap as before, and the foreman carefully picked out with the cold chisel the sawdust surrounding the fingers. As its level lowered, the remainder of the hand and the wrist gradually became revealed. The sight of the whole only accentuated the first impression of dainty beauty and elegance.</p>
			<p>Broughton emptied the cap on to the top of the cask. Three more sovereigns were found hidden in it, and these he pocketed with the others. Then he turned to reexamine the cask.</p>
			<p>It was rather larger than the wine-barrels, being some three feet six high by nearly two feet six in diameter. As already mentioned, it was of unusually strong construction, the sides, as shown by the broken stave, being quite two inches thick. Owing possibly to the difficulty of bending such heavy stuff, it was more cylindrical than barrel shaped, the result being that the ends were unusually large, and this no doubt partly accounted for Harkness’s difficulty in upending it. In place of the usual thin metal bands, heavy iron rings clamped it together.</p>
			<p>On one side was a card label, tacked round the edges and addressed in a foreign handwriting: “<abbr>M.</abbr> Léon Felix, 141 West Jubb Street, Tottenham Court Road, London, <abbr epub:type="z3998:place">W</abbr>., via Rouen and long sea,” with the words “Statuary only” printed with a rubber stamp. The label bore also the sender’s name: “Dupierre <span xml:lang="fr">et <abbr>Cie.</abbr></span>, Fabricants de la Sculpture Monumentale, Rue Provence, Rue de la Convention, Grenelle, Paris.” Stencilled in black letters on the woodwork was “Return to” in French, English, and German, and the name of the same firm. Broughton examined the label with care, in the half-unconscious hope of discovering something from the handwriting. In this he was disappointed, but, as he held the hand-lamp close, he saw something else which interested him.</p>
			<p>The label was divided into two parts, an ornamental border containing the sender’s advertisement and a central portion for the address. These two were separated by a thick black line. What had caught Broughton’s eye was an unevenness along this line, and closer examination showed that the central portion had been cut out, and a piece of paper pasted on the back of the card to cover the hole. Felix’s address was therefore written on this paper, and not on the original label. The alteration had been neatly done, and was almost unnoticeable. Broughton was puzzled at first, then it occurred to him that the firm must have run out of labels and made an old one do duty a second time.</p>
			<p>“A cask containing money and a human hand⁠—probably a body,” he mused. “It’s a queer business and something has got to be done about it.” He stood looking at the cask while he thought out his course of action.</p>
			<p>That a serious crime had been committed he felt sure, and that it was his duty to report his discovery immediately he was no less certain. But there was the question of the consignment of wines. He had been sent specially to the docks to check it, and he wondered if he would be right to leave the work undone. He thought so. The matter was serious enough to justify him. And it was not as if the wine would not be checked. The ordinary tallyman was there, and Broughton knew him to be careful and accurate. Besides, he could probably get a clerk from the dock office to help. His mind was made up. He would go straight to Fenchurch Street and report to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery, the managing director.</p>
			<p>“Harkness,” he said, “I’m going up to the head office to report this. You’d better close up that hole as best you can and then stay here and watch the cask. Don’t let it out of your sight on any pretext until you get instructions from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery.”</p>
			<p>“Right, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broughton,” replied the foreman, “I think you’re doing the proper thing.”</p>
			<p>They replaced as much of the sawdust as they could, and Harkness fitted the broken piece of stave into the space and drove it home, nailing it fast.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m off,” said Broughton, but as he turned to go a gentleman stepped down into the hold and spoke to him. He was a man of medium height, foreign-looking, with a dark complexion and a black pointed beard, and dressed in a well-cut suit of blue clothes, with white spats and a Homburg hat. He bowed and smiled.</p>
			<p>“Pardon me, but you are, I presume, an <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">I.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr> official?” he asked, speaking perfect English, but with a foreign accent.</p>
			<p>“I am a clerk in the head office, sir,” replied Broughton.</p>
			<p>“Ah, quite so. Perhaps then you can oblige me with some information? I am expecting from Paris by this boat a cask containing a group of statuary from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Dupierre of that city. Can you tell me if it has arrived? This is my name.” He handed Broughton a card on which was printed: “<abbr>M.</abbr> Léon Felix, 141 West Jubb Street, Tottenham Court Road, <abbr epub:type="z3998:place">W</abbr>.”</p>
			<p>Though the clerk saw at a glance the name was the same as that on the label on the cask, he pretended to read it with care while considering his reply. This man clearly was the consignee, and if he were told the cask was there he would doubtless claim immediate possession. Broughton could think of no excuse for refusing him, but he was determined all the same not to let it go. He had just decided to reply that it had not yet come to light, but that they would keep a lookout for it, when another point struck him.</p>
			<p>The damaged cask had been moved to the side of the hold next the dock, and it occurred to the clerk that anyone standing on the wharf beside the hatch could see it. For all he knew to the contrary, this man Felix might have watched their whole proceedings, including the making of the hole in the cask and the taking out of the sovereigns. If he had recognised his property, as was possible, a couple of steps from where he was standing would enable him to put his finger on the label and so convict Broughton of a falsehood. The clerk decided that in this case honesty would be the best policy.</p>
			<p>“Yes, sir,” he answered, “your cask has arrived. By a curious coincidence it is this one beside us. We had just separated it out from the wine-barrels owing to its being differently consigned.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix looked at the young man suspiciously, but he only said: “Thank you. I am a collector of <i xml:lang="fr">objets d’art</i>, and am anxious to see the statue. I have a cart here and I presume I can get it away at once?”</p>
			<p>This was what Broughton had expected, but he thought he saw his way.</p>
			<p>“Well, sir,” he responded civilly, “that is outside my job and I fear I cannot help you. But I am sure you can get it now if you will come over to the office on the quay and go through the usual formalities. I am going there now and will be pleased to show you the way.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, thank you. Certainly,” agreed the stranger.</p>
			<p>As they walked off, a doubt arose in Broughton’s mind that Harkness might misunderstand his replies to Felix, and if the latter returned with a plausible story might let the cask go. He therefore called out:⁠—</p>
			<p>“You understand then, Harkness, you are to do nothing till you hear from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery,” to which the foreman replied by a wave of the hand.</p>
			<p>The problem the young clerk had to solve was threefold. First, he had to go to Fenchurch Street to report the matter to his managing director. Next, he must ensure that the cask was kept in the Company’s possession until that gentleman had decided his course of action, and lastly, he wished to accomplish both of these things without raising the suspicions either of Felix or the clerks in the quay office. It was not an easy matter, and at first Broughton was somewhat at a loss. But as they entered the office a plan occurred to him which he at once decided on. He turned to his companion.</p>
			<p>“If you will wait here a moment, sir,” he said, “I’ll find the clerk who deals with your business and send him to you.”</p>
			<p>“I thank you.”</p>
			<p>He passed through the door in the screen dividing the outer and inner offices and, crossing to the manager’s room, spoke in a low tone to that official.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Huston, there’s a man outside named Felix for whom a cask has come from Paris on the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i> and he wants possession now. The cask is there, but <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery suspects there is something not quite right about it, and he sent me to tell you to please delay delivery until you hear further from him. He said to make any excuse, but under no circumstances to give the thing up. He will ring you up in an hour or so when he has made some further inquiries.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Huston looked queerly at the young man, but he only said, “That will be all right,” and the latter took him out and introduced him to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix.</p>
			<p>Broughton delayed a few moments in the inner office to arrange with one of the clerks to take up his work on the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i> during his absence. As he passed out by the counter at which the manager and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix were talking, he heard the latter say in an angry tone:⁠—</p>
			<p>“Very well, I will go now and see your <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery, and I feel sure he will make it up to me for this obstruction and annoyance.”</p>
			<p>“It’s up to me to be there first,” thought Broughton, as he hurried out of the dock gates in search of a taxi. None was in sight and he stopped and considered the situation. If Felix had a car waiting he would get to Fenchurch Street while he, Broughton, was looking round. Something else must be done.</p>
			<p>Stepping into the Little Tower Hill Post Office, he rang up the head office, getting through to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery’s private room. In a few words he explained that he had accidentally come on evidence which pointed to the commission of a serious crime, that a man named Felix appeared to know something about it, and that this man was about to call on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery, continuing⁠—</p>
			<p>“Now, sir, if you’ll let me make a suggestion, it is that you don’t see this <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix immediately he calls, but that you let me into your private office by the landing door, so that I don’t need to pass through the outer office. Then you can hear my story in detail and decide what to do.”</p>
			<p>“It all sounds rather vague and mysterious,” replied the distant voice, “can you not tell me what you found?”</p>
			<p>“Not from here, sir, if you please. If you’ll trust me this time, I think you’ll be satisfied that I am right when you hear my story.”</p>
			<p>“All right. Come along.”</p>
			<p>Broughton left the post office and, now when it no longer mattered, found an empty taxi. Jumping in, he drove to Fenchurch Street and, passing up the staircase, knocked at his chief’s private door.</p>
			<p>“Well, Broughton,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery, “sit down there.” Going to the door leading to the outer office he spoke to Wilcox.</p>
			<p>“I’ve just had a telephone call and I want to send some other messages. I’ll be engaged for half an hour.” Then he closed the door and slipped the bolt.</p>
			<p>“You see I have done as you asked and I shall now hear your story. I trust you haven’t put me to all this inconvenience without a good cause.”</p>
			<p>“I think not, sir, and I thank you for the way you have met me. What happened was this,” and Broughton related in detail his visit to the docks, the mishap to the casks, the discovery of the sovereigns and the woman’s hand, the coming of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix and the interview in the quay office, ending up by placing the twenty-one sovereigns in a little pile on the chief’s desk.</p>
			<p>When he ceased speaking there was silence for several minutes, while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery thought over what he had heard. The tale was a strange one, but both from his knowledge of Broughton’s character as well as from the young man’s manner he implicitly believed every word he had heard. He considered the firm’s position in the matter. In one way it did not concern them if a sealed casket, delivered to them for conveyance, contained marble, gold, or road metal, so long as the freight was paid. Their contract was to carry what was handed over to them from one point to another and give it up in the condition they received it. If anyone chose to send sovereigns under the guise of statuary, any objection that might be raised concerned the Customs Department, not them.</p>
			<p>On the other hand, if evidence pointing to a serious crime came to the firm’s notice, it would be the duty of the firm to acquaint the police. The woman’s hand in the cask might or might not indicate a murder, but the suspicion was too strong to justify them in hiding the matter. He came to a decision.</p>
			<p>“Broughton,” he said, “I think you have acted very wisely all through. We will go now to Scotland Yard, and you may repeat your tale to the authorities. After that I think we will be clear of it. Will you go out the way you came in, get a taxi, and wait for me in Fenchurch Street at the end of Mark Lane.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery locked the private door after the young man, put on his coat and hat, and went into the outer office.</p>
			<p>“I am going out for a couple of hours, Wilcox,” he said.</p>
			<p>The head clerk approached with a letter in his hand.</p>
			<p>“Very good, sir. A gentleman named <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix called about 11:30 to see you. When I said you were engaged, he would not wait, but asked for a sheet of paper and an envelope to write you a note. This is it.”</p>
			<p>The managing director took the note and turned back into his private office to read it. He was puzzled. He had said at 11:15 he would be engaged for half an hour. Therefore, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix would only have had fifteen minutes to wait. As he opened the envelope he wondered why that gentleman could not have spared this moderate time, after coming all the way from the docks to see him. And then he was puzzled again, for the envelope was empty!</p>
			<p>He stood in thought. Had something occurred to startle <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix when writing his note, so that in his agitation he omitted to enclose it? Or had he simply made a mistake? Or was there some deep-laid plot? Well, he would see what Scotland Yard thought.</p>
			<p>He put the envelope away in his pocketbook and, going down to the street, joined Broughton in the taxi. They rattled along the crowded thoroughfares while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery told the clerk about the envelope.</p>
			<p>“I say, sir,” said the latter, “but that’s a strange business. When I saw him, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix was not at all agitated. He seemed to me a very cool, clearheaded man.”</p>
			<p>It happened that about a year previously the shipping company had been the victim of a series of cleverly planned robberies, and, in following up the matter, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery had become rather well acquainted with two or three of the Yard Inspectors. One of these in particular he had found a shrewd and capable officer, as well as a kindly and pleasant man to work with. On arrival at the Yard he therefore asked for this man, and was pleased to find he was not engaged.</p>
			<p>“Good morning, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery,” said the Inspector, as they entered his office, “what good wind blows you our way today?”</p>
			<p>“Good morning, Inspector. This is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broughton, one of my clerks, and he has got a rather singular story that I think will interest you to hear.”</p>
			<p>Inspector Burnley shook hands, closed the door, and drew up a couple of chairs.</p>
			<p>“Sit down, gentlemen,” he said. “I am always interested in a good story.”</p>
			<p>“Now, Broughton, repeat your adventures over again to Inspector Burnley.”</p>
			<p>Broughton started off and, for the second time, told of his visit to the docks, the damage to the heavily built cask, the finding of the sovereigns and the woman’s hand, and the interview with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix. The Inspector listened gravely and took a note or two, but did not speak till the clerk had finished, when he said:⁠—</p>
			<p>“Let me congratulate you, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Broughton, on your very clear statement.”</p>
			<p>“To which I might add a word,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery, and he told of the visit of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Felix to the office and handed over the envelope he had left.</p>
			<p>“That envelope was written at 11:30,” said the Inspector, “and it is now nearly 12:30. I am afraid this is a serious matter, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Avery. Can you come to the docks at once?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly.”</p>
			<p>“Well, don’t let us lose any time.” He threw a London directory down before Broughton. “Just look up this Felix, will you, while I make some arrangements.”</p>
			<p>Broughton looked for West Jubb Street, but there was no such near Tottenham Court Road.</p>
			<p>“I thought as much,” said Inspector Burnley, who had been telephoning. “Let us proceed.”</p>
			<p>As they reached the courtyard a taxi drew up, containing two plain clothes men as well as the driver. Burnley threw open the door, they all got in, and the vehicle slid quickly out into the street.</p>
			<p>Burnley turned to Broughton. “Describe the man Felix as minutely as you can.”</p>
			<p>“He was a man of about middle height, rather slightly and elegantly built. He was foreign-looking, French, I should say, or even Spanish, with dark eyes and complexion, and black hair. He wore a short, pointed beard. He was dressed in blue clothes of good quality, with a dark-green or brown Homburg hat, and black shoes with light spats. I did not observe his collar and tie specially, but he gave me the impression of being well-dressed in such matters of detail. He wore a ring with some kind of stone on the little finger of his left hand.”</p>
			<p>The two plain clothes men had listened attentively to the description, and they and the Inspector conversed in low tones for a few moments, when silence fell on the party.</p>
			<p>They stopped opposite the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Bullfinch</i>’s berth and Broughton led the way down.</p>
			<p>“There she is,” he pointed, “if we go to that gangway we can get down direct to the forehold.”</p>
			<p>The two plain-clothes men had also alighted and the five walked in the direction indicated. They crossed the gangway and, approaching the hatchway, looked down into the hold.</p>
			<p>“There’s where it is,” began Broughton, pointing down, and then suddenly stopped.</p>
			<p>The others stepped forward and looked down. The hold was empty. Harkness and the cask were gone!</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
